[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: Just to
restate the problem.
So we're trying to add a computed
property to our github-org component so
that we have something to bind to,
a Boolean value to bind to,
that will flip back and
forth between true and
false depending on whether that
github-org is in our list of favorites.
And we wanna do so in a generic way
using a computed property macro,
because this is a generally useful thing,
to know the presence or
absence of something in an array.
It could foreseeably be of importance for
later steps in our app.
And so let's get started.
>> Mike North: So I'm gonna get back
to reasonable screen sizes here.
>> Mike North: Close some stuff out.
>> Mike North: Great, so
we're gonna begin with Ember CLI.
>> Mike North: And
just making sure I'm at, yep,
we're starting from the end
of our components exercise.
So this is push to master, you should be
starting from the exercise six commit.
So we're going to generate a util,
which is just a simple function,
in this case that function will return
a computed property, is in array.
>> Mike North: So it's going to
generate the module itself, the util,
which we're gonna consume in our app.
And it's also gonna generate a unit test
and we're gonna get to testing very soon.
And I just want to show,
>> Mike North: In that test,
especially if you get confused about
importing and where imports are,
it's worth noting that your test needs to
be able to import this in order to use it.
You can see that we can use
a relative path here or
we could just do something like that.
So the pro tip here is,
if you've generated code and
you can't find your module or something,
look at the automatically generated
test and that'll give you a clue.
So we're gonna copy that,
and we're gonna go to our
github-org Ember Component,
and we'll import it there.
And right now, isInArray doesn't
do much but I'm gonna set it up,
get it ready to go,
isFavorited: isInArray.
And I'm gonna make the first
argument we pass in here,
it'll be the property name of
the thing we're favoriting.
And then the second argument is going
to be the property name of the list,
which we don't have right now.
In order to get the list,
we have to get it from our service,
and the way we make our service available
to this component is via inject.
Don't need to specify the name.
It knows favorites
is the name of the service we wish to
have by way of the property key here.
And we're gonna say favorites.items,
I think we called it, add my comma.
And I haven't implemented as an array,
but it's not complaining, and
the reason is computer
properties are evaluated lazily.
Nothing's attempting to call this thing
yet, so it doesn't know that it's broken.
>> Mike North: isInArray, so
we're gonna go to our utils folder here.
And I have to import Ember.
>> Mike North: And
I'm going to destructure so
I can just say computed, keep it clean.
>> Mike North: And
just keep myself organized here,
the first argument again is item and
the second argument is list.
And actually, just to be explicit,
I'm gonna call it list and
itemKey, because remember
they're property keys.
They're not the list and
the items themselves.
So the first thing I'm gonna
do is I'm going to declare
the itemKey as a dependency
of my computed property.
So if the item changes for this component,
we need to reestablish whether
this is favorited or not.
We'll have to clear the cache for
this property and recalculate it.
And then the other thing I'm going to
do is declare a dependency on the list.
In this case I only really care
about the length of the list.
And I suppose we could get
into a situation where we're
changing other things that potentially
could make this computer property untrue,
but I'm not gonna worry about that.
I just care about additions and removals
from this list cuz I'm managing it.
I know what I'm doing.
I know there's limited things I
can expect to happen to this list.
So the way I'm gonna
write this is listKey,
which is gonna be like favorites.items,
and I'm going to add square brackets.
Who remembers what square brackets mean?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: And
the other way of having a dependency?
>> Speaker 2: At each.
>> Mike North: At each, great.
And then the next thing is function,
which is Do the computation.
>> Mike North: And I'm just gonna,
cuz I know I'll need it.
>> Mike North: I don't know if you guys
discovered this while playing around,
but within the body of this function,
this is the object that your
computed property lives on.
So in this particular case,
it's gonna be the component.
For that reason,
do not make this an arrow function.
Arrow functions are not just shorthand for
the word function.
They also bind.
So be careful.
Be careful about that.
I use arrow functions in a lot of places,
and
this is one place where you have
to still use ES5 function syntax.
>> Mike North: And I've made
a mistake here, itemKey, listKey.
And we're gonna see how things look.
I don't expect we're
gonna trigger that yet
cuz we haven't used it yet, but
I'm gonna go to my github-org.hbs.
And here I'm going to say,
>> Mike North: if isFavorited 'Favorite'
otherwise 'Unfavorite'.
>> Mike North: And now we're actually
triggering the calculation here.
And I'm just going to check out what I've
got here to make sure I'm in a good state.
So I've got two things I'm interested in,
item and list.
Item, looks good.
That looks like our repo.
List, it's an empty array.
Probably also good, right?
So if I recall what we were adding
to our list here was just the IDs.
I'm gonna double check here.
No, it looks like we were
adding the objects themselves,
cuz we had to map to ID when we
were printing out our string.
So I'm gonna add the object itself or
I'm gonna check for
the presence of the object
itself in this array.
So here I'll go return list.indexOf(item).
So if it is in the array,
this will be greater than or equal to 0.
>> Mike North: And refresh.
[NOISE] I'm gonna put a debugger here and
try again.
>> Mike North: I think I
know what my problem is.
isFavorited, so it is in the array.
>> Mike North: Okay.
>> Mike North: Flipped
the inequality here.
So unless it's favorited already,
we're gonna have the word
favorite on the screen.
>> Mike North: Awesome,
let's see if it works.
>> Mike North: Sweet!
So now we're actually displaying
the favoriting and unfavoriting.